In the last lecture you've seen what's the most basic way to validate the data that is being sent through
the forum in sight the larval application.
So we've used the request object validate method and specified the rules for the form fields.
Now we haven't displayed this errors yet.
So if we press create then form is being sent but then we are redirected back to the last page and the
errors are somewhere but we don't know where they are.
So now let's open the kernel file which you can find inside the HDP folder.
And now I will just quickly explain it.
Where does it happen and how does it happen.
So we've mentioned the middleware before and we have a field here called middleware groups and there
is a list of old and middle worst that by default is enabled for the web group's web means the routes
specified inside your web peach B file so one of those middle worst is called Share errors from session.
So let's open it now.
So let's for a minute ignore the fact that we do not really know exactly how middleware works.
I've explained it a little bit but we'll get to that in some future lectures.
I will explain middle whereas in detail will create our own but each middleware has this handle method
and you can also see examples of middle whereas inside the Vicky already.
And what this does is that if there are any validation errors that they are being stored as a session
variable and this session variable is always called arrows and Lavell has a way to share some data with
all the views.
So we have a variable that is ultimately available in all your larval blade views.
So the way it works is that if the session contains a variable called errors it will share it with all
the views using this method.
This view share.
So that's everything that this middleware does.
So let's close it now because we'll talk about that later.
And now let's go back to our create.
Blade peach bean.
So this is the template which we used to display a form.
So we have our fields there and to display any possible errors.
After that forum is sent we can check if the variable arrows contains any values.
So there is the method on the arrows.
It's actually an object and any will return true if there is at least one error.
So we already know how to use if statements.
So by surrounding this check with the if statement.
Now we are sure that we will only render this part if there are at least if there is at least one error.
Now let's surround everything with a D class and will display all the errors inside or there at least.
So we'll use another directive.
We already know that for each.
And we will iterate over all the errors that are there.
So there is another method of the errors object called all so let's iterate over it and have each individual
error available ask the error variable and close the for each using.
And for each right now we can display each individual error inside a list element so we'll render it
using curly braces
All right now let's go back to our forum and try to submit it if submitted with empty data.
Now you can see two arrows.
The title field is required and the content field is required.
Now if we will go back to our controller you can see that we only wants those two fields to be present.
So that's what's required is doing.
And we want the title to be maximum hundred characters.
Now let's also require it to be at least five characters and maybe let's do the same with content.
So we use vertical bar to add more constraints to our validation.
And this maybe should be at least 10 characters.
So save the changes and maybe type a single letters in all of them.
And now you see our errors that the title must be at least five characters and the content has to be
at least 10 characters.
But if you specify type something that is longer.
Now we have created a brand new blog post.
Now let's also go back to the forum and let's see our validation rules.
So it is important to know that the rules are being checked from left to right in the order they were
defined.
So the first rule would be the required Max the maximum and then the minimum length.
So if will move this rule as the first one.
So first we check if the text is minimum of has the length of minimum five characters and only then
four required.
Let's see what happens if we send an empty form.
So you see that for the title we got the two arrows.
So if you'd like to stop checking when the first rule Rule failed you can add a bail constraint.
So with bail whenever the first rule would fail it won't validate the others.
So this makes sense if you have some time consuming rules of your or you have too many and you just
don't want to call them all.
So now let's see what happens after we've added bail.
So we'll see that it just stops checking the rules from four set on field after the first rule it encountered
has failed.